Annotations in Spring Boot are special markers that provide metadata about the program elements they annotate, guiding the Spring framework on how to manage and configure components. Here’s a brief overview of the main types of annotations along with their descriptions:

### Core Annotations
1. **@SpringBootApplication**: 
   - Combines `@Configuration`, `@EnableAutoConfiguration`, and `@ComponentScan`. It marks the main class of a Spring Boot application.

2. **@EnableAutoConfiguration**: 
   - Automatically configures your Spring application based on the dependencies present in the classpath.

3. **@Configuration**: 
   - Indicates that a class contains Spring configuration and can define beans using the `@Bean` annotation.

4. **@Bean**: 
   - Declares a method as a bean to be managed by the Spring container.

### Stereotype Annotations
5. **@Component**: 
   - Marks a class as a Spring-managed component, making it eligible for component scanning.

6. **@Service**: 
   - Specialization of `@Component`, used for service layer classes that contain business logic.

7. **@Repository**: 
   - Specialization of `@Component`, used for data access layer classes, with built-in exception translation.

8. **@Controller**: 
   - Marks a class as a web controller, handling HTTP requests in a Spring MVC application.

9. **@RestController**: 
   - Combines `@Controller` and `@ResponseBody`, indicating that methods return JSON or XML responses directly.

### Request Mapping Annotations
10. **@RequestMapping**: 
    - Maps web requests to specific handler methods in controllers.

11. **@GetMapping**, **@PostMapping**, **@PutMapping**, **@DeleteMapping**, **@PatchMapping**:
    - Specialized annotations for mapping HTTP requests (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, PATCH) to handler methods.

12. **@PathVariable**: 
    - Binds method parameters to URI template variables in request URLs.

13. **@RequestParam**: 
    - Binds method parameters to query parameters in HTTP requests.

14. **@RequestBody**: 
    - Indicates that a method parameter should be bound to the body of the HTTP request.

15. **@ResponseBody**: 
    - Indicates that the return value of a method should be written directly to the HTTP response body.

### Additional Annotations
16. **@Profile**: 
    - Specifies that a bean is only available in certain profiles (e.g., development or production).

17. **@Value**: 
    - Injects values from property files into fields in Spring-managed beans.

These annotations streamline configuration and enhance code readability, making it easier to develop robust applications with Spring Boot.

Citations:
[1] https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/spring-boot-important-annotations-abid-anjum
[2] https://www.upgrad.com/blog/spring-boot-annotations/
[3] https://github.com/gindex/spring-boot-annotation-list
[4] https://www.javaguides.net/2018/10/spring-boot-annotations.html
[5] https://www.bacancytechnology.com/blog/spring-boot-annotations
[6] https://www.javatpoint.com/spring-boot-annotations
[7] https://javatechonline.com/spring-boot-annotations-with-examples/

---
Answer from Perplexity: https://www.perplexity.ai/search/hi-tq1e.735T0au4_FlsBgOVA?utm_source=copy_output
