Spring Boot **starters** are a set of convenient dependency descriptors that simplify the process of adding libraries and dependencies to your Spring Boot applications. They provide a one-stop-shop for integrating various Spring and related technologies without the hassle of managing individual dependencies.

### Types of Spring Boot Starters

1. **Core Starters**:
   - **spring-boot-starter**: The basic starter that includes core Spring components.

2. **Web Starters**:
   - **spring-boot-starter-web**: For building web applications, including RESTful services.
   - **spring-boot-starter-webflux**: For reactive web applications using Project Reactor.

3. **Data Access Starters**:
   - **spring-boot-starter-data-jpa**: For JPA-based data access.
   - **spring-boot-starter-data-mongodb**: For MongoDB support.
   - **spring-boot-starter-data-redis**: For Redis support.

4. **Messaging Starters**:
   - **spring-boot-starter-amqp**: For RabbitMQ messaging.
   - **spring-boot-starter-kafka**: For Apache Kafka messaging.

5. **Security Starters**:
   - **spring-boot-starter-security**: For adding security features to applications.

6. **Testing Starters**:
   - **spring-boot-starter-test**: For testing Spring Boot applications, including JUnit and Mockito.

7. **Template Engine Starters**:
   - **spring-boot-starter-thymeleaf**: For server-side rendering using Thymeleaf.
   - **spring-boot-starter-freemarker**: For Freemarker template engine support.

8. **Other Specialized Starters**:
   - **spring-boot-starter-actuator**: For monitoring and managing applications.
   - **spring-boot-starter-mail**: For sending emails.
   - **spring-boot-starter-batch**: For batch processing.

### Benefits of Using Starters
- **Convenience**: Reduces the complexity of managing multiple dependencies by grouping them under a single starter.
- **Consistency**: Ensures that compatible versions of libraries are used together, minimizing conflicts.
- **Ease of Use**: Developers can quickly set up projects with required functionalities by including relevant starters in their `pom.xml` or `build.gradle`.

### Conclusion
Spring Boot starters streamline the development process by providing pre-defined sets of dependencies tailored for specific functionalities, allowing developers to focus more on building features rather than managing configurations and library versions.

Citations:
[1] https://stackoverflow.com/questions/77384136/spring-boot-what-dependencies-are-needed-make-a-simple-spring-boot-app-with-dom/77384214
[2] https://nortal.com/insights/starters-connecting-infrastructure/
[3] https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/blob/main/spring-boot-project/spring-boot-starters/README.adoc
[4] https://spring.io/guides/gs/spring-boot/
[5] https://www.javatpoint.com/spring-boot-starters
[6] https://www.baeldung.com/spring-boot-starters
[7] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=59jP7ydJ7Ho

---
Answer from Perplexity: https://www.perplexity.ai/search/hi-tq1e.735T0au4_FlsBgOVA?utm_source=copy_output
