
Project properties:

group: The group ID of the project.
version: The version of the project.
name: The name of the project.
description: A description of the project.
archivesBaseName: The base name for archives created by the project (e.g., JAR, WAR).

Dependency properties:

implementation: Dependencies that are required at runtime.
api: Dependencies that are exposed to other projects that depend on this project.
compileOnly: Dependencies that are only needed during compilation.
runtimeOnly: Dependencies that are only needed at runtime.
testImplementation: Dependencies that are only needed for testing.

Repository properties:

mavenCentral(): Adds the Maven Central repository to the list of repositories where Gradle can find dependencies.
jcenter(): Adds the JCenter repository to the list of repositories where Gradle can find dependencies.
google(): Adds the Google Maven repository to the list of repositories where Gradle can find dependencies.

Plugin properties:

id: The ID of the plugin to apply.
version: The version of the plugin to apply.

Task properties:

name: The name of the task.
group: The group that the task belongs to.
description: A description of the task.
dependsOn: A list of tasks that this task depends on.
doFirst: A closure that is executed before the task's main action.
doLast: A closure that is executed after the task's main action.

SourceSet properties:

java: The Java source set for the main source code.
test: The Java source set for the test code.
resources: The resources source set for the main resources.
testResources: The resources source set for the test resources.

Configuration properties:

name: The name of the configuration.
extendsFrom: A list of configurations that this configuration extends from.
transitive: Whether or not dependencies of this configuration should be transitive.

Custom properties:

Any property that you define yourself in your build script.

