Spring Boot Actuator is a sub-module of the Spring Boot framework that provides essential tools for monitoring and managing Spring Boot applications.
It offers a variety of built-in endpoints that allow developers and operations teams to gain insights into application health, metrics, and other operational data.

## Key Components

- **Endpoints**: Actuator exposes several endpoints that can be accessed via HTTP or JMX. Commonly used endpoints include:
  - **/actuator/health**: Provides the application's health status.
  - **/actuator/info**: Displays arbitrary application information such as version, description, and author.
  - **/actuator/mappings**: Lists all the request mappings in the application.

- **Configuration**: By default, only the health and info endpoints are exposed without security. Other endpoints require configuration to ensure secure access, typically using Spring Security.

- **Integration**: To integrate Actuator into a Spring Boot application, you need to add the following dependency in your `pom.xml`:

  ```xml
  <dependency>
      <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
      <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-actuator</artifactId>
  </dependency>
  ```

## Usage

Once integrated, these endpoints can be accessed at URLs prefixed with `/actuator`. For example:
- Accessing health information: `http://localhost:8080/actuator/health`
- Retrieving application info: `http://localhost:8080/actuator/info`

Spring Boot Actuator significantly simplifies the process of monitoring and managing applications, making it a crucial component for production-grade web applications built with Spring [1][2][4].

Citations:
[1] https://www.unlogged.io/post/springboot-actuator
[2] https://www.javatpoint.com/spring-boot-actuator
[3] https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/2.1.7.RELEASE/reference/html/production-ready-endpoints.html
[4] https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/spring-boot-actuator-endpoints
[5] https://spring.io/guides/gs/actuator-service/
[6] https://www.baeldung.com/spring-boot-actuators
[7] https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/reference/actuator/index.html

---
Answer from Perplexity: https://www.perplexity.ai/search/hi-rpHBshnlQgexhvGtsTn0sQ?utm_source=copy_output
