
In Gradle, tasks are fundamental units of work that define actions to be performed during the build process.
Each task is self-contained and can be configured to depend on other tasks,
allowing for a structured and organized build workflow.

Here’s a list of key methods associated with tasks, which can be used to configure their behavior and manage their execution:

### Key Task Methods

1. **doFirst(Action)**: 
   - Defines actions to be executed before the main task action.

2. **doLast(Action)**: 
   - Specifies actions that should be executed after the main task action.


3. **dependsOn(Object...)**: 
   - Declares dependencies on other tasks, ensuring they run before the current task.


4. **finalizedBy(Object...)**: 
   - Specifies tasks that should always run after the current task, regardless of its outcome.


5. **mustRunAfter(Object...)**: 
   - Indicates that a task must run after another specified task, even if there are no direct dependencies.


6. **onlyIf(Closure)**: 
   - Executes the task only if the provided closure returns true.


7. **setDescription(String)**: 
   - Sets a description for the task, useful for documentation purposes.


8. **setGroup(String)**: 
   - Assigns a group to the task for better organization in the task list.


9. **getInputs()**: 
   - Returns the inputs of the task, which can be defined to track changes and determine if the task needs to run again.

10. **getOutputs()**: 
    - Returns the outputs of the task, allowing Gradle to understand what files or artifacts will be produced.

11. **setEnabled(boolean)**: 
    - Enables or disables a task based on conditions or configurations.


12. **setOnlyIf(Closure)**: 
    - Similar to `onlyIf`, but allows for more complex conditions under which a task should execute.
