
Here’s a list of key Gradle keywords along with their descriptions:

### Gradle Keywords with Descriptions

1. **plugins**
   - **Description**: Used to apply plugins that extend the functionality of the build script, enabling additional features like Java or Android support.
   - **Example**: 
     ```groovy
     plugins {
         id 'java'
     }
     ```

2. **repositories**
   - **Description**: Specifies the locations where dependencies can be found, such as Maven Central or local file directories.
   - **Example**:
     ```groovy
     repositories {
         mavenCentral()
     }
     ```

3. **dependencies**
   - **Description**: Defines the libraries and other dependencies required by the project, specifying their scopes (e.g., implementation, test).
   - **Example**:
     ```groovy
     dependencies {
         implementation 'com.google.guava:guava:32.1.1-jre'
         testImplementation 'junit:junit:4.13.2'
     }
     ```

4. **tasks**
   - **Description**: Defines custom tasks that can be executed during the build process, allowing for specific actions to be performed.
   - **Example**:
     ```groovy
     tasks.register('hello') {
         doLast {
             println 'Hello, Gradle!'
         }
     }
     ```

5. **project**
   - **Description**: Represents a software component being built, encapsulating tasks and configurations related to that component.

6. **buildscript**
   - **Description**: Configures the build script itself, including specifying dependencies needed for the build process.
   - **Example**:
     ```groovy
     buildscript {
         repositories {
             mavenCentral()
         }
         dependencies {
             classpath 'com.android.tools.build:gradle:7.0.0'
         }
     }
     ```

7. **sourceSets**
   - **Description**: Defines different sets of source files for various purposes (e.g., main, test), which helps in organizing code.

8. **defaultConfig**
   - **Description**: Used primarily in Android projects to specify default configuration options such as application ID and SDK versions.

9. **android**
   - **Description**: A specific block used in Android projects to configure Android-specific settings and properties.
   - **Example**:
     ```groovy
     android {
         compileSdkVersion 34
         defaultConfig {
             applicationId "com.example.app"
             minSdkVersion 21
             targetSdkVersion 34
         }
     }
     ```

10. **afterEvaluate**
    - **Description**: A hook that allows you to run code after the project has been evaluated, useful for dynamic configurations.

11. **apply**
    - **Description**: Used to apply a plugin or script to the current project, facilitating modular build scripts.

12. **ext**
    - **Description**: Allows you to define extra properties that can be used throughout your build script.
    - **Example**:
      ```groovy
      ext {
          myVersion = '1.0'
      }
      ```

13. **configurations**
    - **Description**: Defines named sets of dependencies that can be used in different contexts within a project.

14. **task**
    - **Description**: A method used to define a task in the build script, specifying its name and actions.
    - **Example**:
      ```groovy
      task hello {
          doLast {
              println 'Hello World!'
          }
      }
      ```

15. **doFirst / doLast**
    - **Description**: Used within a task to specify actions that should occur before or after the main action of the task.

16. **allprojects**
    - **Description**: A block that allows you to configure all projects within a multi-project build.

17. **subprojects**
    - **Description**: Similar to allprojects but specifically targets subprojects within a multi-project setup.

18. **group**
    - **Description**: Specifies the group ID of the project, typically used for publishing artifacts.

19. **version**
    - **Description**: Defines the version of the project, which is important for dependency management and publishing.

20. **ant**
    - **Description**: Provides an instance of AntBuilder, allowing you to use Apache Ant tasks within your Gradle build.

These keywords form the core structure of Gradle build scripts, enabling developers to define how their projects are built and managed effectively.
