**Spring Boot Actuator Starter**

The **Spring Boot Actuator Starter** is a module that provides production-ready features for monitoring and managing Spring Boot applications. It includes a set of built-in endpoints that allow you to inspect and manage your application's health, metrics, environment, and more.

### Key Features:
- **Health Checks**: Monitor the health of your application and its dependencies.
- **Metrics**: Collect metrics such as memory usage, garbage collection, and web request details.
- **Environment Information**: Access application environment properties.
- **Application Information**: Retrieve build details like version and name.
- **Dynamic Log Levels**: Change log levels without restarting the application.
- **HTTP Tracing**: Trace HTTP requests.

### Setup:
1. **Dependency**: Add `spring-boot-starter-actuator` to your project's `pom.xml` (Maven) or `build.gradle` (Gradle).
2. **Enable Endpoints**: Configure `application.yml` to expose desired endpoints.

### Usage:
- Access endpoints via HTTP or JMX.
- Secure endpoints with Spring Security for authorized access.

The Actuator enhances application observability and operational capabilities, making it essential for production environments[1][2][4].

Citations:
[1] https://dev.to/isaactony/a-beginners-guide-to-using-spring-boot-actuator-5g3n
[2] https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/blob/master/spring-boot-project/spring-boot-actuator/README.adoc
[3] https://spring.io/guides/gs/actuator-service
[4] https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/reference/actuator/enabling.html
[5] https://www.baeldung.com/spring-boot-actuators
[6] https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/reference/actuator/index.html

---
