The **Spring Boot Starter Web** is a key component that simplifies the development of web applications using Spring Boot. Here’s a brief overview of its features and components:

### Overview of Spring Boot Starter Web

1. **Purpose**:
   - The `spring-boot-starter-web` starter is designed for building web applications, including RESTful services. It encapsulates all necessary dependencies to get a web application up and running quickly.

2. **Dependencies**:
   - When you include the `spring-boot-starter-web` dependency in your project, it transitively pulls in several essential libraries:
     - **Spring MVC**: For building web applications and REST APIs.
     - **Jackson**: For JSON processing, enabling automatic conversion between Java objects and JSON.
     - **Embedded Tomcat**: By default, it includes an embedded Tomcat server, allowing you to run your application without needing a separate server installation.

### Key Components

- **Spring MVC**: 
  - A framework that provides model-view-controller architecture and facilitates the creation of web applications.

- **Jackson**:
  - A library for converting Java objects to JSON and vice versa, which is crucial for RESTful services.

- **Embedded Server**:
  - The starter includes an embedded server (Tomcat by default), which simplifies deployment by eliminating the need for external server configuration.

- **Configuration and Auto-Configuration**:
  - Spring Boot’s auto-configuration feature automatically configures various components based on the included dependencies, reducing the need for manual setup.

### Example Usage

To use the Spring Boot Starter Web in your Maven project, add the following dependency in your `pom.xml`:

```xml
<dependency>
    <groupId>org.springframework.boot</groupId>
    <artifactId>spring-boot-starter-web</artifactId>
</dependency>
```

For Gradle, add this line to your `build.gradle`:

```groovy
implementation 'org.springframework.boot:spring-boot-starter-web'
```

### Conclusion

The Spring Boot Starter Web streamlines the process of developing web applications by providing all necessary dependencies and configurations in a single starter package. This allows developers to focus on building application features rather than managing complex configurations and dependencies.

Citations:
[1] https://www.javatpoint.com/spring-boot-starter-web
[2] https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/key-components-and-internals-of-spring-boot-framework
[3] https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/reference/web/index.html
[4] https://stackoverflow.com/questions/54453745/spring-initializr-spring-boot-starter-vs-spring-boot-starter-web/54453888
[5] https://spring.io/guides/gs/spring-boot/
[6] https://media.geeksforgeeks.org/wp-content/uploads/20220207192020/GeekMVC.jpg?sa=X&ved=2ahUKEwjSovzJkqKLAxU4rZUCHcGsHX8Q_B16BAgHEAI
[7] https://www.javatpoint.com/spring-boot-starters
[8] https://www.baeldung.com/spring-boot-starters

---
Answer from Perplexity: https://www.perplexity.ai/search/hi-tq1e.735T0au4_FlsBgOVA?utm_source=copy_output


### Common Annotations in Spring Web

Spring Web provides a variety of annotations that facilitate the development of web applications. Below is a list of key annotations along with their meanings:

- **@Controller**: Marks a class as a Spring MVC controller, indicating that it will handle web requests.

- **@RestController**: A convenience annotation that combines @Controller and @ResponseBody, simplifying the creation of RESTful web services.

- **@RequestMapping**: Maps HTTP requests to specific handler methods. It can be customized with attributes like method type (GET, POST, etc.) and path.

- **@GetMapping**: A specialized version of @RequestMapping for handling GET requests.

- **@PostMapping**: A specialized version of @RequestMapping for handling POST requests.

- **@PutMapping**: A specialized version of @RequestMapping for handling PUT requests.

- **@DeleteMapping**: A specialized version of @RequestMapping for handling DELETE requests.

- **@PatchMapping**: A specialized version of @RequestMapping for handling PATCH requests.

- **@PathVariable**: Binds a method parameter to a URI template variable, allowing dynamic URL mapping.

- **@RequestParam**: Binds request parameters to method parameters, enabling access to query parameters in HTTP requests.

- **@RequestBody**: Binds the HTTP request body to a method parameter, typically used for handling JSON or XML data in requests.

- **@ResponseBody**: Indicates that the return value of a method should be written directly to the HTTP response body, often used in REST APIs.

- **@ExceptionHandler**: Used to define methods that handle specific exceptions thrown by request handler methods, allowing centralized exception handling.

These annotations play a crucial role in building web applications using Spring by providing clear and concise ways to define how requests are handled and how responses are generated[1][3][6].

Citations:
[1] https://github.com/gindex/spring-boot-annotation-list
[2] https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/spring-annotations
[3] https://www.javaguides.net/2018/11/spring-web-mvc-annotations.html
[4] https://howtodoinjava.com/spring-core/spring-annotations/
[5] https://www.javatpoint.com/spring-boot-annotations
[6] https://www.baeldung.com/spring-mvc-annotations
[7] https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/reference/testing/annotations.html