**Types of Widgets in Flutter**
=============================

Flutter widgets are categorized based on their functionality and purpose. Here are the main types of widgets:

### 1. **Stateless Widgets**
   - **Definition**: Widgets that do not require a mutable state.
   - **Examples**: `Text`, `Icon`, `Image`.

### 2. **Stateful Widgets**
   - **Definition**: Widgets that have a mutable state and can change during their lifetime.
   - **Examples**: `TextField`, `Checkbox`, `Switch`.

### 3. **Layout Widgets**
   - **Definition**: Arrange other widgets in a specific layout.
   - **Examples**: `Row`, `Column`, `Grid`, `Stack`.

### 4. **Material Components Widgets**
   - **Definition**: Follow Material Design guidelines for visual and behavioral consistency.
   - **Examples**: `ElevatedButton`, `OutlinedButton`, `Scaffold`.

### 5. **Cupertino Widgets**
   - **Definition**: Follow iOS design guidelines for a native iOS look and feel.
   - **Examples**: `CupertinoButton`, `CupertinoSlider`.

### 6. **Input Widgets**
   - **Definition**: Capture user input.
   - **Examples**: `TextField`, `DropdownButton`, `Checkbox`.

### 7. **Text Widgets**
   - **Definition**: Display and style text.
   - **Examples**: `Text`, `RichText`.

### 8. **Asset Widgets**
   - **Definition**: Manage and display assets like images and icons.
   - **Examples**: `Image`, `Icon`.

### 9. **Animation and Motion Widgets**
   - **Definition**: Add animations and motions to the app.
   - **Examples**: `AnimatedBuilder`, `AnimatedOpacity`.

### 10. **Accessibility Widgets**
    - **Definition**: Improve app accessibility.
    - **Examples**: `Semantics`, `ExcludeSemantics`.

### 11. **Async Widgets**
    - **Definition**: Handle asynchronous operations.
    - **Examples**: `FutureBuilder`, `StreamBuilder`.

### 12. **Painting and Effects Widgets**
    - **Definition**: Add visual effects without changing layout.
    - **Examples**: `Opacity`, `Transform`.

### 13. **Scrolling Widgets**
    - **Definition**: Enable scrolling for multiple widgets.
    - **Examples**: `ListView`, `GridView`.

### 14. **Styling Widgets**
    - **Definition**: Manage app theme and responsiveness.
    - **Examples**: `Theme`, `MediaQuery`.


- Use layout widgets to organize your UI efficiently.
- Implement Material or Cupertino widgets for consistent design.
- Ensure accessibility features are integrated into your app.

Citations:
[1] https://www.dhiwise.com/en-in/post/flutter-widget-cheatsheet-basic-widgets-types
[2] https://docs.flutter.dev/ui
[3] https://docs.flutterflow.io/resources/ui/widgets/
[4] https://www.expertappdevs.com/blog/why-knowledge-of-types-of-widgets-in-flutter-is-the-key-to-learning-the-flutter-development
[5] https://www.tpointtech.com/flutter-widgets
[6] https://docs.flutter.dev/ui/widgets
[7] https://docs.flutter.dev/get-started/fundamentals/widgets

---
Answer from Perplexity: https://www.perplexity.ai/search/info-about-provider-state-mana-kGDVderKSSuX.6dHRFRVVA?utm_source=copy_output