Spring Boot is an open-source framework that simplifies the development of Java-based applications,
particularly web applications and microservices. Here’s a concise overview:

### Key Features
- **Standalone Applications**: Enables the creation of applications that can run independently without relying on an external server.
- **Embedded Servers**: Supports embedding servers like Tomcat or Jetty directly within the application.
- **Auto-Configuration**: Automatically configures the application based on the dependencies present, reducing the need for manual configuration.
- **Opinionated Defaults**: Provides a set of pre-configured templates (starter dependencies) to streamline project setup.

### Benefits
- **Rapid Development**: Reduces setup time and complexity, allowing developers to focus on business logic.
- **Microservices Ready**: Facilitates building scalable and modular applications suitable for microservices architecture.
- **Production-Ready Features**: Includes built-in tools for monitoring, metrics, and health checks (via Spring Boot Actuator).

### Usage
- **Spring Initializr**: A web-based tool to quickly bootstrap a new Spring Boot project by selecting dependencies and generating the project structure.

In summary, Spring Boot enhances productivity by providing a streamlined approach to developing Spring applications, making it a popular choice among developers for building robust and scalable systems quickly [1][2][3].

Citations:
[1] https://www.codingshuttle.com/spring-boot-hand-book/introduction-to-spring-boot/
[2] https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/resources/cloud-computing-dictionary/what-is-java-spring-boot
[3] https://www.ibm.com/think/topics/java-spring-boot
[4] https://dev.to/weder96/spring-boot-everything-you-need-to-know-and-what-nobody-told-you-o4j
[5] https://www.javatpoint.com/spring-boot-tutorial
[6] https://www.tutorialspoint.com/spring_boot/spring_boot_introduction.htm
[7] https://spring.io/projects/spring-boot/
[8] https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/reference/overview.html

---
Answer from Perplexity: https://www.perplexity.ai/search/hi-tq1e.735T0au4_FlsBgOVA?utm_source=copy_output
