Here’s a concise list of commonly used Spring Boot CLI commands:

### Spring Boot CLI Commands

1. **run**: Executes a Groovy script or Java application.
   ```bash
   spring run [options] <files> [--] [args]
   ```

2. **jar**: Creates a self-contained executable JAR file from a Groovy script or Java code.
   ```bash
   spring jar [options] <jar-name> <files>
   ```

3. **init**: Initializes a new Spring Boot project using Spring Initializr.
   ```bash
   spring init [options] [location]
   ```

4. **test**: Runs tests for the specified project.
   ```bash
   spring test
   ```

5. **install**: Installs the specified dependencies into the local Maven repository.
   ```bash
   spring install
   ```

6. **uninstall**: Removes installed dependencies from the local Maven repository.
   ```bash
   spring uninstall
   ```

7. **help**: Displays help information for Spring Boot CLI commands.
   ```bash
   spring help
   ```

8. **shell**: Starts an interactive shell for executing Spring commands without prefixing with `spring`.
   ```bash
   spring shell
   ```

These commands provide essential functionalities for managing and executing Spring Boot applications efficiently.

Citations:
[1] https://www.javaguides.net/2019/02/spring-boot-cli-commands.html
[2] https://github.com/spring-projects/spring-boot/wiki/Useful-build-commands
[3] https://www.scaler.com/topics/spring-boot/spring-boot-cli/
[4] https://docs.spring.io/spring-cli/reference/0.8/user-command-guide.html
[5] https://www.javatpoint.com/spring-boot-cli
[6] https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/cli/index.html
[7] https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/appendix/application-properties/index.html
[8] https://www.bacancytechnology.com/blog/spring-boot-annotations

---
Answer from Perplexity: https://www.perplexity.ai/search/hi-tq1e.735T0au4_FlsBgOVA?utm_source=copy_output
