To set up a Spring Boot project quickly, follow these concise steps:

### 1. Install Prerequisites
- **Java Development Kit (JDK)**: Ensure JDK 17 or higher is installed on your system.
- **IDE**: Choose an Integrated Development Environment (IDE) such as IntelliJ IDEA, Eclipse, or Visual Studio Code.

### 2. Create a New Spring Boot Project
- **Using Spring Initializr**:
  - Go to [Spring Initializr](https://start.spring.io/).
  - Select the project type (Maven or Gradle), language (Java or Kotlin), and add dependencies (e.g., Spring Web).
  - Click "Generate" to download the project zip file and extract it.

### 3. Import the Project into Your IDE
- Open your IDE and import the extracted project folder. This will set up the project structure and dependencies.

### 4. Build and Run the Application
- Open the main application file (e.g., `DemoApplication.java`) and run it as a Java application.
- Spring Boot will start an embedded server (like Tomcat) automatically.

### 5. Test Your Application
- Access your application by navigating to `http://localhost:8080/` in a web browser or using a tool like Postman to test endpoints.

These steps provide a straightforward approach to getting started with Spring Boot development.

Citations:
[1] https://pwskills.com/blog/spring-boot-tutorial/
[2] https://dev.to/javafullstackdev/step-by-step-guide-to-creating-and-setting-up-a-spring-boot-project-in-eclipse-ide-jf0
[3] https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/installing.html
[4] https://spring.io/quickstart/
[5] https://www.springboottutorial.com/spring-boot-introduction-in-10-steps
[6] https://www.javatpoint.com/spring-boot-application
[7] https://spring.io/guides/gs/spring-boot/

---
Answer from Perplexity: https://www.perplexity.ai/search/hi-tq1e.735T0au4_FlsBgOVA?utm_source=copy_output
