In a Spring Boot project, the typical structure is organized to facilitate clarity and maintainability. Here’s a brief overview of the essential components:

### Project Structure Overview

```
my-spring-boot-project
│
├── src
│   ├── main
│   │   ├── java
│   │   │   └── com
│   │   │       └── example
│   │   │           └── myapplication
│   │   │               ├── controllers      // Handles HTTP requests
│   │   │               ├── services         // Business logic layer
│   │   │               ├── repositories     // Data access layer
│   │   │               ├── models           // Data models/entities
│   │   │               └── config           // Configuration classes
│   │   └── resources
│   │       ├── application.properties       // Application configuration settings
│   │       └── static                       // Static files (CSS, JS, images)
│   │       └── templates                    // HTML templates for rendering views (if using Thymeleaf)
│   └── test                                 // Test classes and resources
└── pom.xml                                  // Maven configuration file (or build.gradle for Gradle)
```

### Key Directories and Files

- **src/main/java**: Contains the application’s Java source code.
  - **controllers**: Classes that manage incoming requests and define RESTful endpoints.
  - **services**: Contains business logic and service layer implementations.
  - **repositories**: Interfaces for data access, typically using Spring Data JPA.
  - **models**: POJOs representing the application's data structure.
  - **config**: Configuration classes for application settings.

- **src/main/resources**: Holds resource files.
  - **application.properties**: Main configuration file for application settings like database connections and server ports.
  - **static**: Directory for static assets like CSS, JavaScript, and images.
  - **templates**: Directory for server-side templates if using a templating engine like Thymeleaf.

- **src/test**: Contains test cases for the application.

- **pom.xml**: The Maven configuration file that manages project dependencies and build settings (or `build.gradle` if using Gradle).

This structure promotes a modular approach, making it easier to navigate and maintain the codebase as the application grows.

Citations:
[1] https://codefinity.com/courses/v2/87dc501e-89a6-4a4b-afd4-8b38c46a80c7/9a2cd386-7414-4da6-a5ba-c79732024d97/c5672c70-6af2-4164-ad97-b6205befa155
[2] https://symflower.com/en/company/blog/2024/spring-boot-folder-structure/
[3] https://www.javaguides.net/2019/01/standard-project-structure-for-spring-boot-projects.html
[4] https://dev.to/jazzybruno/spring-boot-project-folder-structure-12oe
[5] https://www.codingshuttle.com/spring-boot-hand-book/creating-first-spring-boot-project-and-understanding-the-project-structure-1/
[6] https://stackoverflow.com/questions/40902280/what-is-the-recommended-project-structure-for-spring-boot-rest-projects
[7] https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/reference/using/structuring-your-code.html

---
Answer from Perplexity: https://www.perplexity.ai/search/hi-tq1e.735T0au4_FlsBgOVA?utm_source=copy_output
