Custom annotations in Spring Boot are developer-defined annotations that encapsulate specific behaviors or configurations, allowing for a clean and reusable way to apply logic across an application. Here's an overview of how they work and how to create them:

### What Are Custom Annotations?
- **Definition**: Custom annotations are declared using the `@interface` keyword and can be used to add metadata or logic to classes, methods, or fields.
- **Purpose**: They simplify complex tasks, reduce boilerplate code, and enhance code readability by handling cross-cutting concerns like logging, validation, or security checks.

### Steps to Create a Custom Annotation

1. **Define the Annotation**:
   - Use the `@interface` keyword to declare the annotation.
   - Add meta-annotations like `@Target` and `@Retention` to specify where and how long the annotation is retained.
   ```java
   @Target(ElementType.METHOD)
   @Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME)
   public @interface CustomAnnotation {
   }
   ```

2. **Create an Aspect (Optional)**:
   - If you want to handle the annotation using Aspect-Oriented Programming (AOP), create an aspect class annotated with `@Aspect`.
   - Use advice annotations (`@Around`, `@Before`, etc.) to define how the annotation should be processed.
   ```java
   @Aspect
   @Component
   public class CustomAspect {
       @Around("@annotation(CustomAnnotation)")
       public Object handleCustomAnnotation(ProceedingJoinPoint joinPoint) throws Throwable {
           // Custom logic here
           return joinPoint.proceed();
       }
   }
   ```

3. **Apply the Annotation**:
   - Use the custom annotation on methods or classes where you want to apply the defined behavior.
   ```java
   @CustomAnnotation
   public void exampleMethod() {
       // Method implementation
   }
   ```

### Benefits of Custom Annotations
- **Simplify Configuration**: Reduce XML configurations by using annotations directly in code.
- **Declarative Programming**: Declare behaviors without writing underlying logic.
- **Cross-Cutting Concerns**: Handle concerns like logging or security centrally.
- **Readability and Consistency**: Improve code readability and enforce consistency across the codebase.

Citations:
[1] https://dev.to/isaactony/how-to-create-your-own-custom-annotation-in-spring-boot-3ch5
[2] https://www.scientecheasy.com/2021/09/custom-annotation-in-java.html/
[3] https://hackernoon.com/how-to-create-custom-annotations-in-spring-boot
[4] https://www.baeldung.com/java-custom-annotation
[5] https://www.ignek.com/blog/custom-annotations-in-spring-boot/
[6] https://www.linkedin.com/pulse/custom-annotations-spring-boot-rajeshwar-kalakuntla-u5hyc

---
