**List of Input Types in Flutter**
================================

Flutter provides a variety of input widgets to capture user input. Here's a list of common input types:

### 1. **Text Input**
   - **TextField**: Allows users to enter text.
   - **TextFormField**: Wraps a `TextField` and integrates it with a `Form`.
   - **SelectableText**: Displays user-selectable text.

### 2. **Selection Input**
   - **DropdownButton**: Allows users to select from a list of options.
   - **Checkbox**: Allows users to select multiple options.
   - **Radio**: Allows users to select one option from a group.

### 3. **Button Input**
   - **ElevatedButton**: A raised button with a shadow.
   - **OutlinedButton**: A button with an outline.
   - **TextButton**: A button with text only.

### 4. **Slider and Switch Input**
   - **Slider**: Allows users to select a value from a range.
   - **Switch**: A toggle switch for binary options.

### 5. **Date and Time Input**
   - **DatePicker**: Allows users to select a date.
   - **TimePicker**: Allows users to select a time.

### 6. **File Input**
   - **FilePicker**: Allows users to select files from their device.

### Best Practices

- Use `TextEditingController` to manage text input programmatically.
- Implement validation using `TextFormField` within a `Form`.
- Use `onChanged` and `onSubmitted` callbacks to handle input events.

Citations:
[1] https://docs.flutter.dev/reference/widgets
[2] https://www.dhiwise.com/en-in/post/flutter-widget-cheatsheet-basic-widgets-types
[3] https://docs.flutter.dev/ui/widgets/input
[4] https://docs.flutter.dev/ui/widgets/material
[5] https://docs.flutter.dev/ui/widgets
[6] https://docs.flutter.dev/ui/widgets/basics
[7] https://stackoverflow.com/questions/70141898/how-can-i-search-a-list-of-widgets-efficiently-with-textfield-input-by-partial

---
Answer from Perplexity: https://www.perplexity.ai/search/info-about-provider-state-mana-kGDVderKSSuX.6dHRFRVVA?utm_source=copy_output