**Stateless Widgets in Flutter**
=============================

Stateless widgets in Flutter are immutable, meaning their properties cannot change once they are created. They are ideal for displaying static content and do not require managing state.

### Key Features

- **Immutable**: Properties cannot change during the widget's lifecycle.
- **No State Management**: Do not use `setState()` to update their state.
- **Rebuild Required**: If changes are needed, the entire widget must be rebuilt.

### Examples of Stateless Widgets

1. **Icon**
2. **IconButton**
3. **Text**
4. **Image**
5. **Container** (without dynamic properties)
6. **Card**
7. **ListTile**

### Use Cases

- **Static UI Elements**: Displaying text, images, or icons that do not change.
- **Reusable Components**: Creating reusable widgets with fixed properties.

### Short Info

Stateless widgets are efficient for static elements, as they avoid unnecessary re-renders and enhance overall application efficiency. They are predictable and facilitate a declarative programming style, making them ideal for scenarios where UI components don't require dynamic updates[2][3].

### Best Practices

- Use stateless widgets for static UI elements.
- Avoid using stateless widgets for dynamic content; instead, use stateful widgets.
- Keep stateless widgets simple and focused on rendering static data.

Citations:
[1] https://www.dhiwise.com/en-in/post/unmasking-the-stateful-and-stateless-widgets-in-flutter
[2] https://magicminds.io/blogs/flutter-app-development-widget-guide-stateful-or-stateless/
[3] https://magecomp.com/blog/stateless-and-stateful-widgets-flutter/
[4] https://api.flutter.dev/flutter/widgets/StatelessWidget-class.html
[5] https://docs.flutter.dev/ui/interactivity
[6] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tDKgJEvhaP8

---
Answer from Perplexity: https://www.perplexity.ai/search/info-about-provider-state-mana-kGDVderKSSuX.6dHRFRVVA?utm_source=copy_output